.TH SDR2MSEED 1 2011/01/31
.SH NAME
SDR to Mini-SEED converter

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
sdr2mseed [options] file1 [file2 file3 ...]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsdr2mseed\fP converts (Win)SDR "seisdata" waveform data to
Mini-SEED format.  By default all channels in the SDR will be
converted, channel selections are possible with the \fB-C\fP option.
The channels can also be decimated during convertion using the
\fB-D\fP option.

If an input file name is prefixed with an '@' character the file is
assumed to contain a list of input data files, see \fILIST FILES\fP
below.

The default output file names are the same as the input files with a
".mseed" suffix.  The output data may be re-directed to a single file
or stdout using the -o option.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-C \fIchanlist\fP"
Specify the channels to extract from the SDR data files where
\fIchanlist\fP is a comma-seprated list of channel numbers to extract.
For example, "-C 1,2,3" will limit the conversion to channels 1, 2 and
3.  By default all channels are converted.

.IP "-D \fIfactor,factor,...\fP"
Decimate the time series data during conversion by one or more
factors.  Decimation factors must be between 2 and 7 and are specified
as a comma-separated list.  For example, "-D 5,4,2" will decimate the
time series by a factor of 5, then 4 and finally 2 for total
decimation factor of 40 (e.g. reducing 200 sps to 5 sps).

.IP "-n \fInetcode\fP"
Specify the SEED network code to use, maximum of 2 characters.  The
default network code is "XX" indicating an experimental data set.
Network codes are allocated by the Federation of Digital Seismograph
Networks.  It is highly recommended to avoid making data public using
unassigned or unowned network codes.

.IP "-s \fIstacode\fP"
Specify the SEED station code to use, 1-5 characters.  The default
station code is SDR.

.IP "-l \fIlocid\fP"
Specify the SEED location ID to use.  The default location ID is
blank/empty.  Generally location IDs are used to logcially separate
multiple instruments at the same site.

.IP "-c \fIchancodes\fP"
Specify the SEED channel codes to use.  The default channel codes are
a three digit value representing the SDR channel number, this does not
follow the SEED convention which uses codes for bandwidth, instrument
type and orientation.

.IP "-S         "
Include SEED blockette 100 in each output record with the sample rate
in floating point format.  The basic format for storing sample rates
in SEED data records is a rational approximation
(numerator/denominator).  Precision will be lost if a given sample
rate cannot be well approximated.  This option should be used in those
cases.

.IP "-r \fIbytes\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED record length in \fIbytes\fP, default is 4096.

.IP "-e \fIencoding\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED data encoding format, default is 11 (Steim-2
compression).  Other supported encoding formats include 10 (Steim-1
compression) and 3 (32-bit integers).

.IP "-b \fIbyteorder\fP"
Specify the Mini-SEED byte order, default is 1 (big-endian or most
significant byte first).  The other option is 0 (little-endian or
least significant byte first).  It is highly recommended to always
create big-endian SEED.

.IP "-o \fIoutfile\fP"
Write all Mini-SEED records to \fIoutfile\fP, if \fIoutfile\fP is a
single dash (-) then all Mini-SEED output will go to stdout.  All
diagnostic output from the program is written to stderr and should
never get mixed with data going to stdout.

.SH LIST FILES
If an input file is prefixed with an '@' character the file is assumed
to contain a list of file for input.  Multiple list files can be
combined with multiple input files on the command line.  The last,
space separated field on each line is assumed to be the file name to
be read.

An example of a simple text list:

.nf
seisdata.013
seisdata.014
seisdata.015
.fi

.SH CAVEATS
Each input SDR file is processed independently; this means that a long,
multi-file time series will not be processed as a single time series.
When decimating a time series across many files the end effects of the
anti-alias filter could potentially become evident.  The advantage is
that only the data from a single file needs to be in memory at any
given time.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
CT
.fi
